docs: Firebase builds aggregation design document (#1296)
platform-platform/monorepo: metrics/firebase/docs/features/builds_aggregation/01_firestore_builds_aggregation_design.md

- [Firebase aggregation](https://github.com/platform-platform/monorepo/blob/master/metrics/firebase/docs/analysis/02_firebase_metrics_aggregation.md)
- [Firestore Cloud Function using Dart](https://github.com/platform-platform/monorepo/blob/master/metrics/firebase/docs/analysis/01_using_dart_in_the_firebase_cloud_functions.md)

## Design

> Explain and diagram the technical design.

The Firestore builds aggregation implementation requires changes in the Firestore Database and Firestore Cloud Functions. The design describes new collections we should create and a list of security rules we should apply. There is also information about Firestore Cloud Function triggers.

### Firestore

The section contains information about the main purposes of new collections, their document structures with field descriptions, and a set of security rules.

### `build_days`

> Explain the main purpose of the collection.

The first collection we should create is the `build_days`. It holds builds grouped by the `status` and `day`. Each status contains the count of builds, created per day. 

#### Document Structure

> Explain the structure of the documents under this collection.

> We should produce a composite document identifier that consists of a project's id and a day this aggregation document belongs to. This identifier we can use to easily update a value of the `build_days` document.

Reviewer: Would it be great to provide more details about the document id? In which format are we going to store the `day`? Maybe it would be useful to have an example of the document id?

The collection's document has the following structure:

```json
{
  "projectId": String,
  "successful": number,
  "failed": number,
  "unknown": number,
  "inProgress": number,
  "totalDuration": number,
  "day": timestamp,
}
```

Let's take a closer look at the document's fields:

| Field | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `projectId`   | An identifier of the project, this aggregation relates to. |
| `successful` | A count of builds with a `successful` status. |
| `failed` | A count of builds with a `failed` status. |
| `unknown` | A count of builds with an `unknown` status. |
| `inProgress` | A count of builds with an `inProgress` status. |
| `totalDuration` | A total builds duration. |
| `day`   | A timestamp that represents the day start this aggregation belongs to. |

#### Security Rules

> Explain the Firestore Security Rules for this collection.

Every authenticated user can read the documents from the `build_days` collection, but no one can write to this collection. Let's consider the security rules for this collection in more details:

- Access-related rules:
  - not authenticated users **cannot** read, create, update, delete this document;

>   - authenticated users **can** read and **cannot** create, update, delete this document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - authenticated users **can** read;
  - authenticated users **cannot** create, update, delete this document.
```
Does it make sense?

### `tasks`

> Explain the main purpose of the collection.

> There may be situations where creating or updating the `build_days` collection fails. If it happens, we should store the required for builds aggregation fields to the `data` field of the specific collection - `tasks` to process this data later.

Reviewer: It seems like this collection is not closely related to the build aggregations, so would it be great to provide a bit more abstract explanation about what this collection stands for?

#### Document Structure

> Explain the structure of the documents under this collection.

The collection's document has the following structure:

```json
{
  "code": String,
  "data": Map,
  "context": String,
  "createdAt": timestamp,
}
```

Let's take a closer look at the document's fields:

| Field | Description |
| --- | --- |

> | `code`   | A string that identifies the task. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `code`   | A string that identifies the task to perform. |
```
Does it make sense since this field does not uniquely identify the `task` document?

> | `data`   | A map, containing the required fields to complete the task. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `data`   | A map, containing the map needed to run the task with the specified `code`. |
```
What do you think?

> | `context`   | A string, containing the reason of the event failure. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `context`   | A string, containing the additional context for this task. |
```
?

> | `createdAt`   | A timestamp, determine when the task is created. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `createdAt`   | A timestamp, determine when this task is created. |
```

For our purposes, the following code strings we can create, related to the function trigger type, that is failed:
 - `build_days.onCreate`
 - `build_days.onUpdate`

Later, using the described above information we can fix counters inside the `build_days` collection.

#### Security Rules

> Explain the Firestore Security Rules for this collection.

No one can read from or write to this collection. Let's consider the security rules for this collection in more details:

- Access-related rules:
  - not authenticated users **cannot** read, create, update, delete this document;
  - authenticated users **cannot** read, create, update, delete this document.

### Firestore Cloud Functions

> When we've created collections and applied rules for them, we should create the Firestore Cloud Functions. In addition, we can [write these functions using the Dart programming language](https://github.com/platform-platform/monorepo/blob/master/metrics/firebase/docs/analysis/01_using_dart_in_the_firebase_cloud_functions.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When we've created collections and applied rules for them, we should create the Firestore Cloud Functions. See [Cloud Functions using Dart](https://github.com/platform-platform/monorepo/blob/master/metrics/firebase/docs/analysis/01_using_dart_in_the_firebase_cloud_functions.md) for more info on how to create cloud functions using the Dart programming language.

Let's review each Cloud Function we need for this feature separately: 
```
What do you think?

> #### onCreate trigger

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### onBuildAdded
```
Does it make sense?

> Explain the main purpose of the trigger.

If we want to provide builds aggregations, we need to process calculations in reaction to added build. For this purpose, we should create the `onCreate` function trigger on the `build` collection.

```dart
functions['onBuildAdded'] = functions.firestore
    .document('build/{buildId}')
    .onCreate(onBuildAddedHandler)

Future<void> onBuildAddedHandler(DocumentSnapshot snapshot, EventContext context) {...}
```

The trigger's `onBuildAddedHandler` handler should process incrementing logic for the `build_days` collection document, based on the created build's status and started date.

> The following sequence diagram shows the overall process of how the `onCreate` triggers works:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following sequence diagram shows the overall process of how the `onBuildAdded ` triggers works:
```

The following sequence diagram shows the overall process of how the `onUpdate` triggers works:

![Sequence diagram](http://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/proxy?cache=no&fmt=svg&src=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/platform-platform/monorepo/builds_aggregation_design/metrics/firebase/docs/features/builds_aggregation/diagrams/firestore_update_builds_aggregation_sequence_diagram.puml)

#### Testing

> How will the functions be tested?

The described above functions we will test using the [test](https://pub.dev/packages/test) package, and perform unit-testing the functions' event handlers.

The `onCreate` handler takes two arguments - `DocumentSnapshot` and `EventContext`. As we don't want to reference the real instance of Firestore, we need to "mock" the `DocumentSnapshot` using the [mockito](https://pub.dev/packages/mockito) package. This gives us a possibility to emulate a Firestore and return specific results depending on the test. Also, we should mock the `EventContext` and pass that instance as the second parameter to the handler.

> The `OnUpdate` event handler, has a similar second argument, but the first one is a `Change`. As it has two states: after the update event and prior to the event, so we should create an instance of `Change` class using the "mocked" `DocumentSnapshot`s and pass it as the first argument to the handler.

Reviewer: Would it be great to add information on how are we going to mock the `FirebaseAdmin` instance to test that out cloud function actually writes or updates documents?
